# TiddlyRAG POC: Investigation of [Git Repo]-[Document] conversion

## What's this POC implemented?

The POC implemented following flow:

1. Clone Git Repo into local instance.
2. Embedding files from Git Reppo. (Stored into Vector database)
3. Query files from Vector database.
4. Using files generate document structure with LLM.
5. Using generated structure to generate articles with LLM.

## Credit

The flow and prompts are copy from [AsyncFuncAI/deepwiki-open](https://github.com/AsyncFuncAI/deepwiki-open), with some adjustment:

- Replace AdalFlow with pgvector.
  - AdalFlow stored embedding vector in `.pkl` which is not safe and required load entire dataset into memory to run query.
- Replace local stored with Gitea.
  - To apply Single Responsibility Principle, "Git Repo" itself is highly specialized domain, should using mature implementation instead of managed by the application.
- Using template engine replace hard code/embedding string.
  - The concept and tools of template engine already developed years, it's a mature pattern. Prompts just another "view" construed with plain text used for LLM input.
- Centralized prompts.
  - `deepwiki-open` also put some prompts in Nest.js, which against High Cohesion Principle.
- Rename `section/pages` into `select/articles`.
  - Original model is: one section have multiple pages, which against common sense.
- Using XML parser and schema validation replace original implementation.
  - original implementation using Regular Express to extract infromation from XML which generated by LLM.

P.S. The implementation of query vector database is guessing, because the original implementation is too mess to understanding. 
P.S. The POC not 100% copy behavior from `deepwiki-open`, because the goal is invesgate know-how of the process.

## Investigation Conclusion

- In the step 3 (Query files from Vector database), may happen case: only query all language version of REAMDE and bunch i18n data without core source code.
  - The flow design from `AsyncFuncAI/deepwiki-open` is very roughly, it need more advanced flow or strategies to cache fundamental information of Git Repo.
- A robust system not only involved Application, LLM, Embedding and Vector database, also count Gitea instance.
  - The architecture need to design carefully, for example learning from: https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/microservices-demo
- Recommend spend some time to read API of Gitea, to clear Domain Model, for example: "repo name" vs "repo id".
  - Using Gitea's schema to define Domian Model and stick with it. Prevent reinvent terms.
